# v1.8 to 1.9

## Environment variables expansion

Argo CD supports using [environment variables](../../../user-guide/build-environment/) in
config management tools parameters. The expansion logic has been improved and now expands missing environment variables
into an empty string.

## Docker image migrated to use Ubuntu as base

The official Docker image has been migrated to use `ubuntu:20.10` instead of
`debian:10-slim` as base image. While this should not affect user experience,
you might be affected if you use custom-built images and/or include third party
tools in custom-built images.

Please make sure that your custom tools are still working with the update to
v1.9 before deploying it onto production.

## Container registry switched to quay.io and sundown of Docker Hub repository

Due to Docker Hub's new rate-limiting and retention policies, the Argo project
has decided to switch to the
[quay.io](https://quay.io)
registry as a new home for all images published by its sub-projects.

As of Argo CD version 1.9, the installation manifests are configured to pull the
container images from `quay.io` and we announce the **sundown** of the existing
Docker Hub repositories. For the 1.9 release this means, we will still push to
both registries, but we will stop pushing images to Docker Hub once Argo CD 1.10
has been released.

Please make sure that your clusters can pull from the `quay.io` registry.
If you aren't able to do so timely, you can change the container image slugs in
the installation manually to Docker Hub as a workaround to install Argo CD 1.9.
This workaround will not be possible anymore with 1.10, however.

## Dex tool migrated from argocd-util to argocd-dex

The dex commands `rundex` and `gendexcfg` have been migrated from `argocd-util` to `argocd-dex`.
It means that you need to update `argocd-dex-server` deployment's commands to install `argocd-dex` 
binary instead of `argocd-util` in init container and run dex command from `argocd-dex` instead of `argocd-util`:

```bash
initContainers:
- command:
  - cp
  - -n
  - /usr/local/bin/argocd
  - /shared/argocd-dex
```

```bash
containers:
- command:
  - /shared/argocd-dex
  - rundex
```
Note that starting from v1.9 argocd binary behaviour has changed. 
It will have all argocd binaries such `argocd-dex`, `argocd-server`, `argocd-repo-server`, 
`argocd-application-controller`, `argocd-util`, `argocd` baked inside. 
The binary will change behaviour based on its name. 