# v2.14 to 3.0

Argo CD 3.0 is meant to be a low-risk upgrade, containing some minor breaking changes. For each change, the next
section will describe how to quickly determine if you are impacted, how to remediate the breaking change, and (if
applicable) how to opt out of the change.

Once 3.0 is released, no more 2.x minor versions will be released. We will continue to cut patch releases for the two
most recent minor versions (so 2.14 until 3.2 is released, and 2.13 until 3.1 is released).

## Breaking Changes

### Fine-Grained RBAC for application `update` and `delete` sub-resources

The default behavior of fine-grained policies have changed so they do not apply to sub-resources anymore.
Prior to v3, when `update` or `delete` actions were allowed on an application, it gave the permission to
update and delete the application itself and any of its sub-resources.

Starting with v3, the `update` or `delete` actions only apply on the application. New policies must be defined
to allow the `update/*` or `delete/*` actions on the application to give permissions on sub-resources.

The v2 behavior can be preserved by setting the config value `server.rbac.disableApplicationFineGrainedRBACInheritance`
to `false` in the Argo CD ConfigMap `argocd-cm`.

Read the [RBAC documentation](../rbac.md#fine-grained-permissions-for-updatedelete-action) for more detailed
information.

### Logs RBAC enforcement as a first-class RBAC citizen

2.4 introduced `logs` as a new RBAC resource. In 2.3 and lower, users with `applications, get` access automatically got logs access. In 2.4, it became possible to enable logs RBAC enforcement with a flag in `argocd-cm` ConfigMap:

```yaml
server.rbac.log.enforce.enable: 'true'
```

Users who have the above setting in place, would be unaffected by this change and don't need to perform any additional action. It is recommended though to delete this setting from the `argocd-cm` ConfigMap.

Users who either have `server.rbac.log.enforce.enable` set to `false` or don't have this setting at all in their `argocd-cm` ConfigMap will have to explicitly grant `logs, get` access, as this flag (and it's default behaviour of `false`) has been removed.
Similarly to the way you currently manage the access to Applications, the access to logs can be either granted on a Project scope level (Project resource) or on the global level scope (`argocd-rbac-cm` ConfigMap resource).

### Default `resource.exclusions` configurations

Argo CD manifest now contains a default configuration for `resource.exclusions` in the `argocd-cm` to exclude resources that
are known to be created by controller and not usually managed in Git. The exclusions contains high volume and high churn objects
which we exclude for performance reasons, reducing connections and load to the K8s API servers of managed clusters.

The excluded Kinds are:

- **Kubernetes Resources**: `Endpoints`, `EndpointSlice`, `APIService`, `Lease`, `SelfSubjectReview`, `TokenReview`, `LocalSubjectAccessReview`, `SelfSubjectAccessReview`, `SelfSubjectRulesReview`, `SubjectAccessReview`, `CertificateSigningRequest`, `PolicyReport` and `ClusterPolicyReport`.
- **Cert Manager**: `CertificateRequest`.
- **Kyverno**: `EphemeralReport`, `ClusterEphemeralReport`, `AdmissionReport`, `ClusterAdmissionReport`, `BackgroundScanReport`, `ClusterBackgroundScanReport` and `UpdateRequest`.
- **Cilium**: `CiliumIdentity`, `CiliumEndpoint` and `CiliumEndpointSlice`.

The default `resource.exclusions` can be overridden or removed in the configMap to preserve the v2 behavior.

Read the [Declarative Setup](../declarative-setup.md) for more detailed information to configure `resource.exclusions`.

### Removal of `argocd_app_sync_status`, `argocd_app_health_status` and `argocd_app_created_time` Metrics

The `argocd_app_sync_status`, `argocd_app_health_status` and `argocd_app_created_time`, deprecated and disabled by
default since 1.5.0, have been removed. The information previously provided by these metrics is now available as labels
on the `argocd_app_info` metric.

#### Detection

Starting with 1.5.0, these metrics are only available if `ARGOCD_LEGACY_CONTROLLER_METRICS` is explicitly set to `true`.
If it is not set to true, you can safely upgrade with no changes.

#### Migration

If you are using these metrics, you will need to update your monitoring dashboards and alerts to use the new metric and
labels before upgrading.

### Changes to RBAC with Dex SSO Authentication

When using Dex, the `sub` claim returned in the authentication was used as the subject for RBAC. That value depends on
the Dex internal implementation and should not be considered an immutable value that represents the subject.

The new behavior will request the
`federated:id` [scope](https://dexidp.io/docs/configuration/custom-scopes-claims-clients/) from Dex, and the new value
used as the RBAC subject will be based
on the `federated_claims.user_id` claim instead of the `sub` claim.

If you were using the Dex sub claim in RBAC policies, you will need to update them to maintain the same access.

You can know the correct `user_id` to use by decoding the current `sub` claims defined in your policies. You can also
configure which
value is used as `user_id` for some [connectors](https://dexidp.io/docs/connectors/).

```sh
$> echo "ChdleGFtcGxlQGFyZ29wcm9qLmlvEgJkZXhfY29ubl9pZA" | base64 -d

example@argoproj.iodex_conn_i%
```

```yaml
# Policies based on the Dex sub claim (wrong)
- g, ChdleGFtcGxlQGFyZ29wcm9qLmlvEgJkZXhfY29ubl9pZA, role:example
- p, ChdleGFtcGxlQGFyZ29wcm9qLmlvEgJkZXhfY29ubl9pZA, applications, *, *, allow

# Policies now based on federated_claims.user_id claim (correct)
- g, example@argoproj.io, role:example
- p, example@argoproj.io, applications, *, *, allow
```

If authenticating with the CLI, make sure to use the new version as well to obtain an authentication token with the
appropriate claims.

### Removed support for legacy repo config in argocd-cm

Before repositories were managed as Secrets, they were configured in the argocd-cm ConfigMap. The argocd-cm option has
been deprecated for some time and is no longer available in Argo CD 3.0.

#### Detection

To check whether you have any repositories configured in argocd-cm, run the following command:

```shell
kubectl get cm argocd-cm -o=jsonpath="[{.data.repositories}, {.data['repository.credentials']}, {.data['helm.repositories']}]"
```

If you have no repositories configured in argocd-cm, the output will be `[, , ]`, and you are not impacted by this
change.

#### Migration

To convert your repositories to Secrets, follow the documentation for
[declarative management of repositories](../declarative-setup.md#repositories).

### Ignoring ApplicationSet `applyNestedSelectors` field

Setting the `spec.applyNestedSelectors` field in an ApplicationSet resolves counter-intuitive behavior where filters in
nested selectors were not applied. Starting in Argo CD 3.0, the field is ignored, and behavior is always the same as if
`applyNestedSelectors` was set to `true`. In other words, nested selectors are always applied.

#### Detection

To detect if you are impacted, search your ApplicationSet controller logs for this string: `ignoring nested selector`.
If there are no logs with this string, you are not impacted.

Another way to detect if you are impacted is to run the following command:

```shell
kubectl get appsets -o=json | jq -r '.items[] | select(
    .spec.applyNestedSelectors != true and
    .spec.generators[][].generators[][].generators[].selector != null
  ) | .metadata.name'
```

The command will print the name of any ApplicationSet that has `applyNestedSelectors` unset or set to `false` and has
one or more nested selectors.

#### Remediation

Since `applyNestedSelectors` is false by default, you can safely remove the nested selectors on ApplicationSets where
`applyNestedSelectors` has not been explicitly set to `true`. After the selectors are removed, you can safely upgrade.

For example, you should remove the selector in this ApplicationSet before upgrading to Argo CD 3.0.

```diff
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: ApplicationSet
metadata:
  name: guestbook
spec:
  goTemplate: true
  goTemplateOptions: ["missingkey=error"]
  generators:
  - matrix:
      mergeKeys: ['test-key']
      generators:
      - list:
          elements:
          - test-key: 'test-value'
            cluster: staging
          - test-key: 'test-value'
            cluster: production
      - merge:
          generators:
          - list:
              elements:
              - another-key: 'another-value'
          - cluster: {}
-           selector:
-             matchLabels:
-               app: guestbook

  template:
    metadata:
      name: '{{.cluster}}-guestbook'
    spec:
      project: my-project
      source:
        repoURL: https://github.com/infra-team/cluster-deployments.git
        targetRevision: HEAD
        path: guestbook/{{.cluster}}
      destination:
        server: '{{.url}}'
        namespace: guestbook
```

### Upgraded Helm version with breaking changes 
Helm was upgraded to 3.17.1.   
This may require changing your `values.yaml` files for subcharts, if the `values.yaml` contain a section with a `null` object.   
See related issue in [Helm GitHub repository](https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/12469)   
See Helm 3.17.1 [release notes](https://github.com/helm/helm/releases/tag/v3.17.1)   
Example of such a [problem and resolution](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/pull/22035/files)   
Explanation:
- Prior to Helm 3.17.1, `null` object in `values.yaml` resulted in a warning: `cannot overwrite table with non table` upon performing `helm template`, and the resulting K8s object was not overridden with the invalid `null` value.
- In Helm 3.17.1, this behavior changed and `null` object in `values.yaml` still results in this warning upon performing `helm template`, but the resulting K8s object will be overridden with the invalid `null` value.
- To resolve the issue, identify `values.yaml` with `null` object values, and remove those `null` values.   

## Other changes

### Using `cluster.inClusterEnabled: "false"`

When `cluster.inClusterEnabled: "false"` is explicitly configured, Applications currently configured to
sync on the in-cluster cluster will now be in an Unknown state, without the possibility to sync resources.

It will not be possible to create new Applications using the in-cluster cluster. When deleting existing
Application, it will not delete the previously managed resources.

It is recommended to perform any cleanup or migration to existing in-cluster Application before upgrading
when in-cluster is disabled. To perform cleanup post-migration, the in-cluster will need to be enabled temporarily.

### Ignoring all status updates and high churn mutations

Argo CD manifest now contains a default configuration for `resource.customizations.ignoreResourceUpdates` in the `argocd-cm`
to exclude common resources that are often mutated in Kubernetes. These mutations are known to cause an unnecessary
load on Argo CD. When a watched resource is modified, Argo CD will always ignore the `.status` changes.

The default `resource.customizations.ignoreResourceUpdates` configurations can be overridden or removed in the configMap to preserve the v2 behavior.

### Health status in the Application CR

The health status of each object used to be persisted under `/status` in the Application CR by default.
Any health churn in the resources deployed by the Application put load on the application controller.
Now, the health status is stored externally.

You can revert this behavior by setting the `controller.resource.health.persist` to `true` in the Argo CD
`argocd-cmd-params-cm.yaml` Config Map.

Example of a status field in the Application CR persisting health:

```yaml
status:
  health:
    status: Healthy
  resources:
    - group: apps
      health:
        status: Healthy
      kind: Deployment
      name: my-app
      namespace: foo
      status: OutOfSync
      version: v1
  sync:
    status: OutOfSync
```

Example of a status field in the Application CR _not_ persisting health:

```yaml
status:
  health:
    status: Healthy
  resourceHealthSource: appTree
  resources:
    - group: apps
      kind: Deployment
      name: my-app
      namespace: foo
      status: OutOfSync
      version: v1
  sync:
    status: OutOfSync
```

#### Detection

1. Check the `argocd-cmd-params-cm.yaml` ConfigMap for `controller.resource.health.persist`.

   If the value is empty or true, the health status is persisted in the Application CR.

```sh
kubectl get cm argocd-cmd-params-cm -n argocd -o jsonpath='{.data.controller\.resource\.health\.persist}'
```

2. Check any Application CR for the `resourceHealthSource` field.
   If you see a blank value, the health status is persisted in the Application CR.

```sh
kubectl get applications.argoproj.io <my app> -n argocd -o jsonpath='{.status.resourceHealthSource}'
```

#### Migration

Any tools or CLI commands parsing the `.status.resources[].health` need to be updated to use the argocd cli/API to get the health status.

```sh
argocd app get <my app> -o json
```

### Empty Environment Variables in Plugins

In Argo CD 3.0, empty environment variables are now passed to config management plugins.

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
spec:
  source:
    plugin:
      name: example-plugin
      env:
        - name: VERSION
          value: '1.2.3'
        - name: DATA # Even though this is empty, it will be passed to the plugin as ARGOCD_ENV_DATA="".
          value: ''
```

### Ignoring resource updates configured in `ignoreDifferences` by default

By default, the existing system-level `ignoreDifferences` customizations will be added to ignore resource updates as well.

Logically, if a field is configured to be ignore for the difference, there is no reason to gnerate the diff for the application
whenever that field changes.

To disable this behavior and preserve the v2 default, the `ignoreDifferencesOnResourceUpdates` can be set to false:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: argocd-cm
data:
  resource.compareoptions: |
    ignoreDifferencesOnResourceUpdates: false
```

More details for ignored resource updates in the [Reconcile Optimization](../reconcile.md) documentation.

### Ignoring status field from differences by default

By default, the compare options to ignore the status field has been changed from `crd` to `all` resources.

This means that differences won't be detected anymore for fields that are part of the status.

If you rely on the status field being part of your desired state, the `ignoreResourceStatusField` setting can be used to preserve the v2 default.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: argocd-cm
data:
  resource.compareoptions: |
    ignoreResourceStatusField: crd
```

More details for ignored resource updates in the [Diffing customization](../../user-guide/diffing.md) documentation.

## Git File Globbing Changes

Starting with Argo CD 3.0, the new Git file globbing implementation is now the default and only option. The `--enable-new-git-file-globbing` flag and its corresponding environment variable `ARGOCD_APPLICATIONSET_CONTROLLER_ENABLE_NEW_GIT_FILE_GLOBBING` have been removed, as the new implementation is now mandatory.

### What Changed

In previous versions, Argo CD offered two different implementations for Git file globbing:
- The legacy implementation (default) - using CLI-based git commands for file discovery
- The new implementation (previously enabled with `--enable-new-git-file-globbing=true`) - using Go's native filesystem traversal and pattern matching

With Argo CD 3.0, only the new Go-native implementation remains, offering several improvements:

1. **Consistent Pattern Matching**: Uses Go's native filepath.Match and doublestar package for more predictable glob pattern matching
2. **Performance**: More efficient file discovery, especially for large repositories
3. **Reduced Dependency**: Less reliance on external git CLI commands

### Breaking Changes

This change may affect you if:

1. **Pattern Differences**: You have ApplicationSets or applications using Git generators with path patterns that worked differently under the legacy implementation
2. **Custom Extensions**: You extended or customized Argo CD's Git file discovery mechanisms

#### Practical Examples of Impact

1. **ApplicationSets with specific path patterns**:
   - The legacy implementation performed very greedy globbing, which could trigger errors or catch users off-guard
   - For example, with a pattern like `cluster-charts/*/*/values.yaml`, the legacy implementation would interpret it as `cluster-charts/**/values.yaml`, meaning it would pick up values.yaml files from subdirectories as well
   - The new implementation uses the doublestar package which provides more predictable glob pattern matching
   - Example repository structure that might be affected:
     ```
     cluster-charts/
       ├── cluster1
       │   ├── mychart/
       │   │   ├── charts/
       │   │   │   └── mysubchart/
       │   │   │       ├── values.yaml
       │   │   │       └── etc…
       │   │   ├── values.yaml
       │   │   └── etc…
       │   └── myotherchart/
       │       ├── values.yaml
       │       └── etc…
       └── cluster2
           └── etc…
     ```
     With a pattern like `cluster-charts/*/*/values.yaml`, the legacy implementation would match both the chart's values.yaml and the one from its subchart, which might cause issues

2. **Pattern matching behavior**:
   - The new implementation uses the doublestar package which supports more advanced glob patterns
   - For example, with a pattern like `some-path/*.yaml`, the legacy implementation would return all YAML files in any directory at any level under `some-path`, instead of only those directly under it
   - The new implementation provides more predictable glob pattern matching, following the behavior of Bash's globstar
   - The doublestar package supports patterns like `**/child*`, `grandparent/**/child?`, `**/parent/*`, or even just `**` by itself (which will return all files and directories recursively)
   - Note that the doublestar must appear as a path component by itself (e.g., `/path/**` is valid, but `/path**` is not)

3. **Custom scripts or tools**:
   - If you have scripts that parse the output of git commands for file discovery
   - If you've built tools that interact with Argo CD's file globbing in specific ways

### Detection

You may be affected by this change if you notice different behavior in:

1. ApplicationSet Git generators when using specific file or directory patterns
2. Applications that use Git repositories with path patterns
3. Custom scripts or extensions that were built around the old file globbing behavior

#### Practical Steps to Check If You're Impacted

1. **Check your ApplicationSets**:
   - Look for any ApplicationSet resources that use the Git generator with path patterns
   - Example:
     ```yaml
     apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
     kind: ApplicationSet
     metadata:
       name: my-appset
     spec:
       generators:
       - git:
           repoURL: https://github.com/myorg/myrepo.git
           revision: HEAD
           directories:
           - path: "**/values.yaml"  # This is a pattern that might behave differently
     ```

2. **Check for environment variables or configuration settings**:
   - Check if you've enabled the new globbing in any of these ways:
     - Pass `--enable-new-git-file-globbing` to the ApplicationSet controller args
     - Set `ARGOCD_APPLICATIONSET_CONTROLLER_ENABLE_NEW_GIT_FILE_GLOBBING=true` in the ApplicationSet controller environment variables
     - Set `applicationsetcontroller.enable.new.git.file.globbing: "true"` in the `argocd-cmd-params-cm` ConfigMap
   - If you've already enabled the new implementation, you're less likely to be affected by this change

### Remediation

If you experience issues after upgrading:

1. **Pattern Updates**: Review your Git generator path patterns in ApplicationSets to ensure they work with the new globbing implementation
   - Update patterns to take advantage of the improved double-star (`**`) support
   - Test complex patterns with repositories to verify expected behavior

2. **Configuration Cleanup**: Remove any related configuration:
   - Remove any usage of the environment variable `ARGOCD_APPLICATIONSET_CONTROLLER_ENABLE_NEW_GIT_FILE_GLOBBING`
   - Remove any flags or arguments related to the old git file globbing implementation

3. **Testing**: Test your applications with the new implementation:
   - Verify that all expected files are being discovered and processed correctly
   - Pay special attention to patterns that might have been affected by the globbing in the legacy implementation

